Lars Marcoen has the ambition to leave a cultural impact by connecting people through projects and events. His projects begin with a topic of great personal relevance, situating and trying to understand his own experiences within a social context. The ever-evolving results allow viewers to think with an object or concept rather than about it, actively joining the designer’s conversation and thus becoming part of the project itself. Within, he is attempting to develop a creative methodology by using techniques like digital collages lending temporary visual culture & creating 3D models and renders to eventually make the final design. In his search he doesn’t like to confine himself within certain disciplines. He believes that through collaboration and participation we can achieve greater things. This is why he has, next to his jewelry & accessories practice chaos atelier, one foot in the Belgian clubbing scene as a scenographer & the other in the creative hub Werkhuis where he dreams of guiding cross disciplined projects, curating expos & organizing club nights.



Werkhuis 
Werkhuis is a creative community hub founded by Geraas Collectief in the heart of Genk. A place to come together, to meet and learn from each other. A house where we share and realize ideas, where we experiment and make. A place where young designers and artists can develop and present themselves. Werkhuis serves as a platform for inter disciplinary projects. 

The location offers more than thirty established residents a space to create. An exposition space and enough room to organize workshops, readings, events and club nights. 


Club Derive
The lockdown during the covid-19 months carried the shutdown of established clubs which led to the risk of a dying club culture. Temporary club nights arose from this uncertainty. These nights are organized by club collectives that operate bottom-up and do-it-yourself.
The club is a dark space filled with light and sweating bodies. It is a complete experience of discovery, experimentation with identity, and most importantly, of being able to experience freedom. I was intrigued by this second world, and especially by the transition to it. It soon became clear that the night needed another researching and designing story. Therefore, we transformed our intuition and experience into an analysis and design tool.

During the research we investigated the influence of the environment and the movement through this environment on the mental, which is called psychogeography. The movement through the environment was analyzed resulting in intuitive maps consisting of organic forms. We applied the design principles of Guy Debord and Constant Nieuwenhuys during the design process to bring a combination of modular structures and flow to life. The result, Club Dérive, is a night-after-night transformative club scenography that takes clubgoers into an environment that encourages play and discovery. Immerse yourself in a second world and experiment with identity and letting go of yourself.





Chaos atelier 
Chaos atelier is a creative collective founded by Lola Ilegems and myself in 2019. Within the collective, we strived to share our contemporary aesthetic with the outside world. 

The choice and application of the designs always relied on the creativity of the user. For example the 'bead' is a jewel that can be used as a necklace and earring but equally in a hairstyle, on shoelaces or other necklaces.
Schrijven naar Lars Marcoen
